scorchwrap plugin beta (#483)
LavaMoat/lavamoat: packages/webpack/README.md

module.exports = {
  // ... other webpack configuration properties
  plugins: [
    new LavaMoatPlugin({
      // policy generated by lavamoat
      policy: require("./lavamoat/policy.json"),
      // runChecks: true, // enables checking each wrapped module source if it's still proper JavaScript (in case mismatching braces somehow survived Webpack loaders processing)
      // readableResourceIds: true, // explicitly decide if resourceIds from policy should be readable in the bundle or turned into numbers. You might want to bundle in production mode but keep the ids for debugging
      //   diagnosticsVerbosity: 2, // level of output verbosity from the plugin
      // SES lockdown options to use at runtime
      // lockdown: {
      //   errorTaming: "unsafe",
      //   mathTaming: "unsafe",
      //   dateTaming: "unsafe",
      //   consoleTaming: "unsafe",
      //   overrideTaming: "severe"
      // },
    }),
  ],
  // ... other webpack configuration properties
};
```

One important thing to note when using the LavaMoat plugin is that it disables the `concatenateModules` optimization in webpack. This is because concatenation won't work with wrapped modules.

> ### Avoiding wrapping specific modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ignoring Modules
```

Author: I like your idea (from meeting) to use the word 'exclude'

> [!WARNING]

> > This is an experimental feature and ignoring may be configured differently in the future if this approach is proven insecure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This is an experimental feature and the API may change without warning.
```

> The default way to define specific behaviors for webpack is creating module rules. To ensure ignore rules are applied on the same exact files that match certain rules (the same RegExp may be matched against different things at different times) we're providing the ignore functionality as a loader you can add to the list of existing loaders or use individually.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webpack provides [module rules](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/module/#rule) for defining module-specific behavior. To ensure the rules are applied on the correct files (e.g., the same `RegExp` may be matched against different things at different times), this "ignore" functionality is exposed as a loader.
```

> The loader is available as `LavaMoat.ignore` from the default export of the plugin. It doesn't do anything to the code, but its presence is detected and treated as a mark on the file. Any file that's been processed by `LavaMoat.ignore` will not be wrapped in a Compartment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This loader is exposed as the `ignore` property on the plugin's default export.  It doesn't modify code, but instead flags the file as _ignored_. Any file having this flag will _not_ be wrapped in a `Compartment`.

The `ignore` loader will _only_ work when used in a Webpack config. Specifying it inline `require('path/to/ignoreLoader.js!./module.js')` will _not_ result in `module.js` being ignored.  _This is a security feature which prevents your dependencies from declaring they want to be ignored._
```

Example: avoid wrapping CSS modules:
```js
module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader,
          'css-loader',
          LavaMoat.ignore,
        ],
        sideEffects: true,
      },
    ],
  },

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example: Don't wrap CSS modules

```js
const LavaMoatPlugin = require('@lavamoat/webpack');

module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          MiniCssExtractPlugin.loader,
          'css-loader',
          LavaMoatPlugin.ignore,
        ],
        sideEffects: true,
      },
    ],
  },
  // ...
};
```
```

> Ignore loader will only work when used in webpack config. Specifying it inline `require('path/to/ignoreLoader.js!./module.js')` will not result in module.js being ignored. (This is a security feature to prevent your dependencies from declaring they want to be ignored.)

Reviewer: (moved above)

```suggestion
```

### Gotchas

#### Implicit modules

> - Webpack may include dependencies for node builtins like the `events` or `buffer` packages. In other cases it will ignore the builtins and provide empty modules in their place. (see below)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Webpack may include dependencies polyfilling Node.js built-ins, such as the `events` or `buffer` packages. In other cases, it will ignore the built-ins and provide empty modules in their place (see below).
```

> When a dependency (eg. buffer) is provided by webpack and you need to add it explicitly to your dependencies you'll get the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a dependency (eg. `buffer`) is provided by Webpack, and you need to add it explicitly to your dependencies, you'll receive the following error:
```

```
Error: LavaMoat - Encountered unknown package directory for file "/home/(...)/node_modules/buffer/index.js"
```

#### Webpack-ignored modules
Webpack generates this:
```js
const nodeCrypto = __webpack_require__(/*! crypto */ "?0b7d");
```

> when a builtin module is ignored (Node builtins are a good example of that. If you want a builtin to work, you sometimes need to supply a package for it as a dependency yourself)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a built-in Node.js module is ignored, Webpack generates something like this:

```js
const nodeCrypto = __webpack_require__(/*! crypto */ "?0b7d");
```

If you want a built-in to work, you sometimes need to supply your own dependency.
```

A carveout is necessary in policy enforcement for these modules. 
Sadly, even treeshaking doesn't eliminate that module. It's left there and failing to work when reached by runtime control flow.

> LavaMoat plugin is prepared to skip those and if a package attempts to import a webpack-ignored module an error will not be thrown even if it's not explicitly allowed by policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A carveout is necessary for these modules in LavaMoat's policy enforcement.

Unfortunately, even treeshaking doesn't eliminate it. It's left there, useless, and fails to work if the runtime control flow ever reaches it.

This LavaMoat plugin is prepared to skip such modules, and if a package attempts to import a Webpack-ignored module, you'll be alerted with a thrown exception--even if it's not explicitly allowed by your LavaMoat policy.
```

Author: the point is there will NOT be an error.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

prettier should clean this up

Author: I'll let it do that

# Security Claims

> This is a beta version and it does not provide any guarantees, even those listed below. Use at your own risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This is a _beta_ release and does not provide any guarantees; even those listed below. Use at your own risk!**
```

- SES must be added to the page without any bundling or transforming for any security guarantees to be sustained.
  - The plugin could add it as an asset to the compilation if that's a good Developer Experience. Feedback welcome.
- Each javascript module resulting from the webpack build is scoped to its package's policy

> Threat model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Threat Model
```

Looks like a header to me?

- Webpack itself is considered trusted.
- All plugins can bypass LavaMoat protections intentionally.

> - It's unlikely but possible that a plugin can bypass LavaMoat protections unintentionally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's unlikely _but possible_ that a plugin can bypass LavaMoat protections _unintentionally_.
```

- It should not be possible for loaders to bypass LavaMoat protections.

> - Some plugins (eg. MiniCssExtractPlugin) execute code from the bundle at build time. To make the plugin work you need to trust it and the modules it runs and add the LavaMoat.ignore loader for them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some third-party plugins (eg. `MiniCssExtractPlugin`) execute code from the bundle at build time. To make such a plugin work, you need to a) trust it, b) trust the modules it runs, and c) add it to the `LavaMoatPlugin.ignore` loader.
```

> - LavaMoat plugin is not protecting you against malicious packages being executed by other plugins at runtime (but lavamoat cli could)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This Webpack plugin _does not_ protect against malicious execution by other third-party plugins at runtime (use [LavaMoat](https://npm.im/lavamoat) for that).
```

> Webpack runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Webpack runtime
```

> Elements of webpack runtime (`__webpack_require__.*`) are currently mostly left intact. To avoid opening up potential bypasses, some functionality of the webpack runtime will need to be restricted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elements of the Webpack runtime (e.g., `__webpack_require__.*`) are currently mostly left intact. To avoid opening up potential bypasses, some functionality of the Webpack runtime will need to be restricted.
```

# Testing 

Run `npm test` to start the automated tests.

## Manual testing

> run `npm ci` and `npm run lib:ses` in the packages/webpack folder before you begin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prepare, execute `npm ci` then `npm run -w @lavamoat/webpack lib:ses`.

Then:

- Navigate to `packages/webpack/example/`
- Run `npm ci` and `npm test`
- Open `dist/index.html` in your browser and inspect the console
```

Author: is this assuming they're reading the readme but are not in the package's own folder?

`cd example`  
run `npm ci`  
run `npm test` to trigger the build  
open dist/index.html in the browser and look at the console

> # Development

Reviewer: I feel like this entire section should be put into a different document, or perhaps just make issues for it.

Author: sounds good

List of what to cover ordered by priority

- [x] e2e test creating a bundle and run it to check for errors
- [x] e2e test covering basic security claims
- [ ] cover all module types
- [ ] configure bundle splitting
- [ ] cover all types of runtimeRequirements with examples (stuff passed to closures along with modue and exports and `__webpack_require__`, also all the methods on `__webpack_require__`)
- [ ] cover webpack magic comments

### package identifiers

We use @lavamoat/aa to identify packages for the policy. 
As part of this plugin we'll need to identify modules in a compatible way and then work the policy into the bundle runtime.  
At that point, when everything i bundled, there's no point in maintaining full identifiers, so they can be replaced with numbers to occupy less space.

```mermaid
flowchart TD;

aa[AA identifiers in policy] --> p[policy processing]
wp[paths of the bundle] --> waa[paths mapped to AAs]
waa --> p
p --> w[replace AAs with numbers from a sequence]
w --> b[use short identifiers in the bundle and inlined policy]

```

> # Features

Reviewer: Is this intended to be part of the `Development` section?

Author: yes. these are ideas
